#labels Featured
= EBookDroid v1.3.2 changelog =

=== Optimization of decoding and drawing process ===
 * Bitmap memory management improved

=== Impoved book formats support ===
 * MuPDF library update
 * FB2.1 <strikethrough> support added

=== Configuration and settings ===

=== Other changes ===
 * DPad half-page scrolling removed. Dpad keys are now working as Volume ones - in configurable scroll mode
 * Saving/restoring position inside the page (#19)
 * Localization updated
 
== Bug fixes ==
 * Fix for #84
 * Fix for #125
 * Fix for #126
 * Fix for #127
 * Fix for #131
 * Multizoom failure fixed
 * Various NPE fixed

= EBookDroid v1.3.1 changelog =

=== Optimization of decoding and drawing process ===
 * Drawing speed optimization.
 * Memory clearing improved.

=== Impoved book formats support ===
 * MuPDF library update
 * Some native code changes for PDF display.
 * Some MuPDF errors handling added.
 * Store memory limit for MuPDF library
 * FB2 fonts are corrected
 
=== Configuration and settings ===
 * ShowAnimIcon preference added.
 * Fix "Use bookcase" settings for Android 1.5

=== Other changes ===
 * Set App Install Location to auto.
 * Outline changed to pseudo-tree L&F
 * Re-styled About dialog.
 * Bookshelf & Library improvements.
 * Attachments are viewed via temporary file
 
== Bug fixes ==
 * Fix for mixed case file extensions
 * Fix for #123.
 * Various FB2 fixes
 * Several NPE fixed.

= EBookDroid v1.3 changelog =

=== New features ===
 * Hardware acceleration is returned back for Android 3+ 
 * Horizontal scroll view mode added
 * FB2 support added
 * Page cropping implemented
 * Bookshelf view (Android 1.6+) for recent books and library folders added
 * Natural curler (like as in FBReader) added 
 * PDF rotation implemented.
 * Book thumbnails added
 * "Set as thumbnail" action is added into menu
 * About dialog added

=== Optimization of decoding and drawing process ===
 * Bitmap pool added
 * Page bitmaps are splitted onto 128*128 pieces to unify memory usage
 * Gray background is drawn if djvu page is failed to decode 
 * Zooming processing improved

=== Impoved book formats support ===
 * MuPDF library updated up to actual sources
 * DjVU library updated up to actual sources
 * XPS library updated up to actual sources
 * Update freetype to version 2.4.7

=== Configuration and settings ===
 * Preferences based on fragments UI available for Android 3+
 * DjVU specific settings added

=== Other changes ===
 * Animated transition is used (if defined) when scroll button pressed
 * New Year's Easter egg added
 * Clearing application data dialog added
  
== Bug fixes ==
 * Old bugs fixed
 * New bugs added

=EBookDroid v1.2.2 changelog=

== Bug fixes ==

 * Fix for tap scrolling
 * Fix for Black screen on Android 1.5
 * Fix for #50 ( Scrolling jerkiness )
 * Fix for #52 ( Black/white flashes )
 * Fix for #51 ( fling effect )
 * Fix for scrolling by buttons
 * MuPDF updated
 * DjVU updated

=EBookDroid v1.2.1 changelog=

== Bug fixes ==

 * Fix PDF memory leaks
 * Workaround for Archos DPI bug

 * Prevents layout changed on main menu in fullscreen
 * Recent/Library/Browser view speed improvements
 * Various MuPDF fixed
 * Scrolling & Fling optimizartion
 * Title cleanup improvements
 * PDF page width/height fixes
 * Night mode painting fixes
 * Various NPE fixes
 * Touch fixes
 * Loading progress dialog added

=EBookDroid v1.2 changelog=

==New features==

===Optimization of decoding and drawing process===
 * The decoding queue is resorted depending on current view position before top element is taken
 * The position & zoom event handlers optimization to restrict number of affected pages/page nodes.
 * New memory usage mode: "Render page in document resolution" for new devices with Android 3+
 * Native bitmap memory is directly used if possible (Android 2.2+)
 * Full recycling of book resources on "Back" key pressed.

===Bookmarks support added===
 * For current page bookmark can be added by corresponding menu item.
 * For any other page bookmark can be added inside the "Goto page" dialog
  * use seek bar to set the required page number
  *  click the "Bookmarks" button below to open "Add bookmark dialog"
 * After that bookmark will be available in scrollable list below the "Bookmarks" button 
 * Short click on a bookmark in this list move the progress indicator in seek bar and update page number edit control
 * Long click on a bookmark allow to delete this bookmark
 * Long click on the "Bookmarks" allow to delete all bookmarks for the opened book.

===Impoved book formats support===
 * DJVU, PDF: native bitmap memory support added
 * DJVU: decoding into 16 bit color space suppport added

===Configuration and settings===
 * "Load recent book on start" preference added into UI settings
 * "Zoom by double tap" preference added into Touch&Scrolling settings
 * New memory usage mode: "Render page in document resolution" for new devices with Android 3+
 * Max slice image size (in KB) added for "Low memory" mode.
 * Values of text/list preferences are shown in summary string

===Other changes===
 * Current book settings dialog is additionally available from main menu
 * Interface changes in file browser/recent library activities
  * Optimization of folder scanning process
  * Book settings dialog is opened on long click on a book icon/row


== Bug fixes ==

 * Various issues are fixed