= EBookDroid v2.0.0 changelog =

==Since version 2,==

===The EBookDroid become a closed source application,===
===All 3d-party GPL code are deleted or moved to separate programs,===
===Only Android 3.1+ devices supported.===
===Legacy fonts are added back in package and selected by default.===

==New features==
 * Multi-document support including instant switching between opened documents and service views.
  * The following service views are reachable on application icon click:
   * Library
   * Local files
   * Local network
   * OPDS catalogs
   * Application settings
  * The following navigation styles are available:
   * Drop down list
   * Standard Android tab bar
   * Customized tab bar
  * The following navigation mode can be applied to service views:
   * All service views are always shown as independent items
   * Only top service view is shown even any book is opened
   * Only top service view is shown if no book opened and hidden otherwise
 * EPUB and RTF support added.
 * Internal structure of text documents (FB2, EPUB and RTF) are cached on disk after first rendering.
 * CBZ/CBR auto-detection added.
 * The following separate native programs are used for document rendering:
  * mupdf - a lightweight PDF and XPS viewer, based on MuPDF library.
  * djvu - a lightweight DJVU viewer based on DjVuLibre library.
  * cbx - a lightweight Comicbook viewer based on libPng, libjpeg, GIFLIB, Unrar and zLib libraries
 * Hand-drawn annotations and text highlighting added
 * Text selection
 * External dictionary support.
 * Network shares browser

== Bug fixes ==
 * Lot of old bugs fixed.
 * Lot of new bugs added.
